>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
we are building an app, and
we want this app to be
a real-world project.
And on most real-world projects,
we need to deal with the real world.
And the real world means things
happen all the time, and
we need to debug those things.
So even if everything works fine in my
computer, when I deploy that to a server,
anything can happen,
mostly when we are in the cloud and
we have a lot of users accessing,
for example, that back end.
So it's actually really
important to always have
a logging system to log problems and
errors.
I mean, it's not mandatory, we can
deploy an app without logging errors and
problems, but the day we have a problem,
the day someone is sending us an email,
the customer is saying,
hey, it's all working.
The server is down, the website is down,
it's gonna be difficult to actually
tryi to find the solution quickly.
So we need to think before hands and
one way is to create a logger.
Okay, there are many ways
to create the logger,
I mean, you can from go,
let's go to main.go,
I could go here and just use format font,
print line and say,
print line survey the files.
If there are any problem, for example,
here I'm using the standard log system,
but the standard log
system is just saving,
it's sending this to the output console.
Or actually to the output
of the operating system,
that it can be a file as well,
but by default, it's a console.
But from a server point of view,
it's difficult to follow that.
So where can I see the console of my
server if I'm deploying this to the cloud?
There are some solutions,
some cloud-based solutions such as Burcell
that will let you go into a panel and
see the console output of your scripts,
that sometimes is difficult.
So that's why we have other options.
There are two options,
we are going to pick one.
One is to use a cloud-based provider,
there are services that will let
you send your logs to a server,
and they have nice dashboards,
then you can see
all your problems by time,
by hour, by device.
Okay, so some or most of those services
are paid, so you need to pay for that.
Or we can just create a log system,
a very simple log system that writes
you a file that this is how logs in
the operating system typically works.
So every error every
problem that you have,
it creates a new entry in that file, okay?
Of course we can use the database as well,
but a file will be good enough.
So that's why I'm going to
create a new package, remember,
packages in Go are just folders.
So I will create a new package
with the name logger, and
if you're following along with
instructions, this is a2.
So from readme,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: On a2,
this is a logger, and then in the package,
I'm going to create logger.co,
this is probably one of the exceptions.
We're not going to code manually this,
it doesn't worth the effort,
and it's a waste of time to actually
take 15 minutes to do this.
So this is one that I will just copy and
paste, and I will explain it.
It's actually pretty simple.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: But at least
we are not wasting time with this,
that is not the core of our project,
it's just a logging system.
So new logger creates a logger
is not really complicated, and
then we have some functions
there doing some things.
So on a structure, it's kind of
simulating that, it's called the logger.
It's a logger structure that actually
will have like a file where we
are storing this and we have two loggers.
It can be an info logger and error logger.
So because we can just send info messages,
this is like console log in Javascript,
or error messages like console error.
Then we have the new logger,
this is the factory.
Remember in Go we don't have constructors,
we don't have objects,
we don't have constructors.
But we simulate the idea of
a constructor through a factory,
so the factory has a prefix new, okay, and
the name of the value that we
are creating the structure.
So new logger creates a logger
is not really complicated, and
then we have some functions there doing
some things, and what's the idea?
We are just opening a file, so
we are saving this in a file,
okay, that's all.
And why am I doing this right now,
because I will start coding my server,
and there will be moments,
many moments where errors may happen.
I should already have the logger ready so
I can write to that logger at that moment.
If I do that after coding my app,
I will probably miss
a lot of places,
a lot of moments that I'm not logging.
Yeah, you can also add
a mark to-do mark and
then replace all your to-do
marks if you want, but
that's why beforehand it's a good idea
to set up your login system, okay?
And the great advantage of using
a login system of your own,
your custom login system,
is later you can change that.
Let's say that later you want to
upgrade your login system, and
instead of using a file,
you want to use a cloud-based provider.
Just go here here, change here,
I know your app now is ready to load
into the cloud, okay, makes sense?
So that's my logger, and
now we need to go to main.go and update or
create the logger actually, because we
are not actually creating the logger.
So we are going to create
here a log instance,
we can call log instance,
that is going to create the logger,
and we can create the logger here,
or we can create a function,
another function,
initialize logger, for example.
And then we can call that function,
it is giving me an error
because the function is not
returning anything yet.
And then I'm going to
create that initialized
logger that will actually return a logger.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: You can
see that when I added this,
now I have by import as well.
It's importing this from a different
package because the logger is
in a different package,
it's not in the main package.
The asterisk says it's a pointer,
that means I may return nil as well.
Remember the values here don't accept
nulls that here in Go are nills unless
it's a pointer, if it's a pointer, then
asterisk means I can send nills as well.
So then I can call my logger.Newlogger,
I receives the file path so
we can call this movie service the log or
movie log, movie log,
movie output log, however you wanna
call this, it's just a file name.
And of course, this is relative
to the execution of our server,
you can use also an absolute path.
Don't put this in the public folder,
because if you put that file in the public
folder, it will be available for
every user, okay, so don't do that.
It should be outside of the public folder,
that log file.
This idea is that new logger
is following the pattern
we see here, of error management in Go.
So if for
some reason you cannot open the file, why,
maybe I don't have permissions in the file
system to open the file or whatever.
There are no more space in the disk,
anything can happen.
I'm returning two values, so
that's the design pattern in Go.
So functions that may trigger an error,
we don't have exceptions here,
we don't have try catch.
We are just returning two values, okay?
The possible value, and that's why
it has an asterisk, it's a pointer,
because maybe it's not there,
and then the error.
So if there are no errors,
I'm returning the object and
nil as an error.
And if there are errors,
I'm returning nil as the object and
then the error, okay, makes sense.
This is, again, this is a goal design
pattern that you may already know in case
you are coming from node.js or javascript,
this is similar node.js and how you work.
Also, when you open the file system
before promises, where the callbacks
also have an error, but in the reverse
order, kind of the same pattern.
So that means that we should save.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Both values here,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Remember that
we can return more than
one value in Go functions,
and we are going to check
if we do have an error.
Well now we need to log to the File
c through the operating system,
we don't have any other initialice logger.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Of course if we
cannot create the log, the only thing we
have is to send a message to the operating
system, a fatal error, okay?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And then,
we will return the LogInstance, and
we're going to use defer to close.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That LogInstance,
we'll defer that to the end,
so we close it at the end.
But we set that close now,
that's the idea of deferring Go.
And now of course,
Go is always complaining that
I'm not using that instance.
Remember Go is not letting you create
variables that you are not using.
So it won't compile,
that's why it's complaining, but
yeah, we will use that at some point.
So the idea is that, for example,
if the server is failing,
we can now use our LogInstance, and
try to log in this case an error saying,
Server failed.
So by the way, it also needs the error
that we passed an argument.
It's not just sending
a message to the output,
it's also saving that
information in a file.
So from now on, every time we want
to log messages to the console,
we're going to do that with our logger,
not with format print or
with print, okay, so
this is much better than format print.
We typically in production,
we don't use format print to
send messages, we use a logger.
Then if you want that logger to
send messages to the console, okay,
it's up to you.
But the idea is that later you can change
that with the server side login system or
whatever.
Now if I save this, again,
I've just saved this,
the problem that I still have
is if my server is running,
it's not taking that new part
because I need to install air.
By the way, if you are used to Nodemon,
you can also use Nodemon as well.
You need to pass some arguments to tell
them that you're not expecting child
script files but go files.
But Nodemon can also be
useful in this case.
But to use Nodemon, you also need to have
NPM and Node.js installing your system.
So it's completely separated from Go,
okay?
Anyway, do you have any
question at this point?
>> Speaker 2: Can you explain the import
path for this logger that we imported,
front end masters.com reeling
logger cuz I'm just confused cuz
that's not where it is locally for
the file that we created.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
let's talk about that, so
the question is about
importing other packages.
So actually, in Go, we have modules,
let's say your project, and
then inside the module, you have packages.
What's a package, files in a folder
that they start with the package keyword
at the top with the name of the package.
So every file in the folder
logger that have package logger
are part of the same package.
When you are in main.go, you're in the
main package, not in the logger package.
So even if it's part of your module,
you have to import your files and
importing your files needs
kind of an absolute URL and
it's the name of your module.
And where this is coming from,
it's coming here from go.mod.
So it's the name of your module,
forward slash,
the name of the package you're
importing from that module, okay?
The other imports that we have here
are actually system packages from go,
like they are part of
the standard library, so
that's why they don't need that full path,
okay, does it make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Thank you.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So later,
we will start using other modules as well,
like community based modules.
In that case, we will be importing
from other modules as well,
remember that it looks like a URL,
that's kind of a pattern in Go,
but it's not mandatory.
And of course, no one is validating
that that URL actually exists.
Typically, is the name of your company,
or sometimes you use GitHub URL, so
github.com/ like a real URL or sometimes
it's a real one, sometimes it's not,
that's the name of your module.
And remember that in Go,
when you are importing a package,
you are importing everything
that the package has exported.
Does anyone remember how
do you export things in Go?
>> Speaker 3: Capital letter.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Capital letter, so
everything that in the package starts with
a capital letter, such as logger here or
new logger, is actually exported.
So if I create another function
that is with lowercase
letter is not exported and
only the same package can use it.
That applies to variables,
constants, functions,
structures, okay,
just as an overview of Go.
Okay, cool, well,
now that we have a logger,
we can start building the rest of
the parts in our back end, okay?
We did that again beforehand, so we are
ready to send messages to that logger, and
we will use it because at one point
we will get errors, okay, and
we will use that logger to
actually find the error.